## Class Project

Each student will complete a final class project which will be to learn in depth one part of the model (e.g., carbon cycle, or water cycle) and/or projections related to TEMs. Students can choose a topic of interest to them or their research, in consultation with the course instructor. Students will take turns to present their topic to the rest of the class (via a 30 minute powerpoint presentation). These presentations will take place during class in the final four weeks of the semester. Each student will be given a reading list relevant to their chosen topic, but they will be encouraged to seek out other journal articles to complement their knowledge. The grade will be based on the detail and quality of the presentation. Students will also be expected to submit an up to 1 page plan for their project, to write a 2-page literature review on their chosen topic (due before their presentation in class), and to prepare a 10-question quiz based on their topic for other students in the class to take. The grade for the final class project will be based on all these components as well as the quality of their presentation. A detailed rubric will be given to students at the start of the course.

*Additional requirement for G589 students*: the class project will be more extensive and based on your research interests. It will make up a greater percentage of your overall grade. Students will be expected to seek out further material in the form of journal articles than the reading list they are given. The literature review should be 3 pages instead of 2.

**Quizzes**: as part of the Class Project, each student will prepare a 10 question quiz to test if the rest of the class has understood the material. The rest of the class will take all the set by the other students in their class and the overall grade will be the average across those quizzes.

In this directory you will find a powerpoint presentation introducing the various components of the class project as well as a grading rubric for each component. A reading list for each student will also be provided depending upon their chosen topic.
